README.md, before:

# WindbreakerCSS

This is a css utility framework based on sass and inspired by [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) and [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/).

It allows you to create utility classes easily by using the mixins provided.

## Installation

`npm install windbreakercss`

or

`yarn add windbreakercss`

In your main scss file include the mixin:

```
@import '~windbreakercss/main';
```

## Usage

Using the mixin is straight forward, just pass in the options and it'll generate the css.

```scss
$separator: '\\:';

$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    property: color,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': #fff,
        'black': #000,
        'gray': #666
    )
);

@include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator);
```

This will generate the following css:

```css
.text-white {
    color: #fff;
}
...
```

You can wrap the mixin in a media query and add a query key if you would like to add responsive utilities, see example below:

```scss
$separator: '\\:';

$breakpoints: (
    sm: 576px,
    md: 768px,
    lg: 992px,
    xl: 1200px,
    2xl: 1600px
);

$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    property: color,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': #fff,
        'black': #000,
        'gray': #666
    )
);

@include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator);
@each $bp, $size in $breakpoints {
    @media screen and (min-width: $size) {
        @include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator, $bp);
    }
}
```

This will generate the following css:

```css
.text-white {
    color: #fff;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 576px) {
    .text-white\:sm {
        color: #fff;
    }
    ...
}
...
```

To make things easier we've made another way to generate your classes and that's by creating a configuration map, see below for example:

```scss
$config: (

    // Options

    separator: '\\:',

    // Responsive

    breakpoints: (
        sm: 576px,
        md: 768px,
        lg: 992px,
        xl: 1200px,
        2xl: 1600px
    ),

    // Utilities

    utilities: (

        // Color

        color: (
            prefix: 'text-',
            dark-mode: true,
            property: color,
            states: hover focus active,
            responsive: true,
            values: (
                'white': #fff,
                'gray': #666,
                'black': #000
            )
        )

    )

);

@include windbreakercss($config);
```

NOTE: We've added the property `responsive` to the utility above and added breakpoints to the root of the config to generate all the responsive classes.

### Values

You can replace the values with maps and omit the `property` option.

```scss
$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': (
            color: #fff,
            border-color: #fff
        ),
        'black': (
            color: #000,
            border-color: #000
        ),
        'gray': (
            color: #666,
            border-color: #666
        )
    )
);
```

## Configuration

|Option|Description|Value|Output|
|---|---|---|
|`prefix`|What the class names should begin with|String|`text-white`|
|`dark-mode`|Enable dark mode classes|`true` or `false`|`.dark .dark:text-white`|
|`group`|Enable group state classes. For example `group: hover focus`|Map/List|`.group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white`|
|`states`|Enable state classes|Map/List|`hover\:text-white:hover`|
|`property`|The CSS property which you would like to generate the classes for|String|N/A|
|`values`|The values to generate the classes from|Map|See examples above|

## Classes

When you enable all the options this is the CSS which is generated:

```css
.active\:text-white:active,
.dark .active\:text-white\:dark:active,
.dark .focus\:text-white\:dark:focus,
.dark .group:active .group\:active\:text-white\:dark,
.dark .group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white\:dark,
.dark .hover\:text-white\:dark:hover,
.dark .text-white\:dark,
.focus\:text-white:focus,
.group:active .group\:active\:text-white,
.group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white,
.hover\:text-white:hover,
.text-white {
    color: #fff
}
...
```

## Purging

As you can see above a lot of classes are generated so it's best to purge all the classes that aren't used in your website or app. We recommend using [PurgeCSS](https://github.com/FullHuman/purgecss).

Commit message:

Adding license and making readme changes

README.md, after:

# WindbreakerCSS

This is a css utility framework based on sass and inspired by [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) and [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). It allows you to create utility classes easily by using the mixins provided.

## Installation

```
npm install windbreakercss
```

or

```
yarn add windbreakercss
```

In your main scss file include the mixin:

```
@import '~windbreakercss/main';
```

## Usage

Using the mixin is straight forward, just pass in the options and it'll generate the css.

```scss
$separator: '\\:';

$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    property: color,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': #fff,
        'black': #000,
        'gray': #666
    )
);

@include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator);
```

This will generate the following css:

```css
.text-white {
    color: #fff;
}
...
```

You can wrap the mixin in a media query and add a query key if you would like to add responsive utilities, see example below:

```scss
$separator: '\\:';

$breakpoints: (
    sm: 576px,
    md: 768px,
    lg: 992px,
    xl: 1200px,
    2xl: 1600px
);

$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    property: color,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': #fff,
        'black': #000,
        'gray': #666
    )
);

@include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator);
@each $bp, $size in $breakpoints {
    @media screen and (min-width: $size) {
        @include windbreakercss-utility($config, $separator, $bp);
    }
}
```

This will generate the following css:

```css
.text-white {
    color: #fff;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 576px) {
    .text-white\:sm {
        color: #fff;
    }
    ...
}
...
```

To make things easier we've added another way to setup your configuration and create classes, see example below:

```scss
$config: (

    // Options

    separator: '\\:',

    // Responsive

    breakpoints: (
        sm: 576px,
        md: 768px,
        lg: 992px,
        xl: 1200px,
        2xl: 1600px
    ),

    // Utilities

    utilities: (

        // Color

        color: (
            prefix: 'text-',
            dark-mode: true,
            property: color,
            states: hover focus active,
            responsive: true,
            values: (
                'white': #fff,
                'gray': #666,
                'black': #000
            )
        )

    )

);

@include windbreakercss($config);
```

NOTE: We've added the property `responsive` to the utility above and added breakpoints to the root of the config to generate all the responsive classes.

## Advanced Usage

If you have more than one property you would like to create a utility from then instead of adding a value e.g. `#fff` you can add a map of different properties, see example below:

```scss
$config: (
    prefix: 'text-',
    dark-mode: true,
    group: hover active,
    states: hover focus active,
    values: (
        'white': (
            color: #fff,
            border-color: #fff
        ),
        'black': (
            color: #000,
            border-color: #000
        ),
        'gray': (
            color: #666,
            border-color: #666
        )
    )
);
```

## Configuration

|Option|Description|Value|Output|
|---|---|---|---|
|`prefix`|What the class names should begin with|String|`text-white`|
|`dark-mode`|Enable dark mode classes|`true` or `false`|`.dark .dark:text-white`|
|`group`|Enable group state classes. For example `group: hover focus`|Map/List|`.group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white`|
|`states`|Enable state classes|Map/List|`hover\:text-white:hover`|
|`property`|The CSS property which you would like to generate the classes for|String|N/A|
|`responsive`|Enable responsive classes. This will only work when using the `windbreakercss` mixin.|`true` or `false`|N/A|
|`values`|The values to generate the classes from|Map|See examples above|

## Classes

When you enable all the options this is the CSS which is generated (see below). Make note of how the classes are named when enabling group, dark and responsive options.

```css
.active\:text-white:active,
.dark .active\:text-white\:dark:active,
.dark .focus\:text-white\:dark:focus,
.dark .group:active .group\:active\:text-white\:dark,
.dark .group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white\:dark,
.dark .hover\:text-white\:dark:hover,
.dark .text-white\:dark,
.focus\:text-white:focus,
.group:active .group\:active\:text-white,
.group:hover .group\:hover\:text-white,
.hover\:text-white:hover,
.text-white {
    color: #fff
}
...
```

## Purging

As you can see above a lot of classes are generated so it's best to purge all the classes that aren't used in your website or app. We recommend using [PurgeCSS](https://github.com/FullHuman/purgecss).

## Notes

As you can see from some of the examples above, we've added quotes around the color names, this is due to sass converting them to hex colors.

## Contributing

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature/hotfix branch: git checkout -b feature/my-super-feature
3. Commit your changes: git commit -m "Added some feature"
4. Push to the branch: git push origin feature/my-super-feature
5. Submit a pull request
